README.md, before:

# JUnit 5 Quick Start Guide and Advanced

<br>

## <p align="center">[Visit the projects GitHub-IO page for a blog-like format](https://dmitrij-drandarov.github.io/JUnit5-Quick-Start-Guide-and-Advanced/)</p>
 
### <p align="center">[![ioPage](/../master/img/00_README_link.png?raw=true)](https://dmitrij-drandarov.github.io/JUnit5-Quick-Start-Guide-and-Advanced/)</p>

<br>

### Schedule
- [ ] 5.0 M3 Update - TODO: Update guide
 - JUnit 4 interoperability
 - Additional discovery selectors

- [ ] 5.0 M4 Update - Due by March 5, 2017
 - Parameterized tests
 - Enhanced dynamic tests
 - Documentation
 
- [ ] 5.0 M5 Update - Due by June 25, 2017
 - Scenario tests
 - Repeated tests
 - Test execution in user-defined thread

- [ ] 5.0 RC1 (Release Candidate 1) Update - Due by July 23, 2017
 - Last fixes before GA

- [ ] 5.0 GA (General Availability Release) Update - Due by August 24, 2017
 - First General Availability Release

[Milestones](https://github.com/junit-team/junit5/milestones/)

### To-Do

- [ ] Update for Milestone 3                            -   --/--/2017
- [x] Dependency Copy-Paste Resource                    -   07/24/2016
- [x] Links to Java-Files                               -   07/24/2016
- [x] Reordered packages and classes                    -   07/26/2016
- [x] @TestFactory + DynamicTests                       -   07/26/2016
- [x] Test-Extensions (o\j\j\api\extension)             -   07/28/2016
- [x] Test-Extensions extended                          -   07/29/2016
- [x] Adjusted packages and classes for presentation    -   08/01/2016
- [x] Add @Nested                                       -   08/03/2016
- [x] Add expectThrows()                                -   08/03/2016
- [x] Add reference                                     -   08/03/2016
- [x] Proper Presentation                               -   08/04/2016
- [x] Finish Stream TODOs                               -   08/05/2016
- [x] Changed name                                      -   08/05/2016

Commit message:

Add JUnit best-practice page, Update schedule, Update format, Update JavaDoc, Fix a ton of grammar, Update to M3 (Add M3-Guide placeholders)

README.md, after:

# JUnit 5 Quick Start Guide and Advanced

You can also check out the best-practice-part included in this repository. It was created by request of a colleague:  
[**Checkout JUnit best-practices included in this repository**
](https://github.com/dmitrij-drandarov/JUnit5-Quick-Start-Guide-and-Advanced/blob/master/src/test/java/com/drandarov/bestPractice/JUnitX_XX_BestPractice.java)

<br>

## <p align="center">[Visit the projects GitHub-IO page for a blog-like format](https://dmitrij-drandarov.github.io/JUnit5-Quick-Start-Guide-and-Advanced/)</p>
 
### <p align="center">[![ioPage](/../master/img/00_README_link.png?raw=true)](https://dmitrij-drandarov.github.io/JUnit5-Quick-Start-Guide-and-Advanced/)</p>

<br>

### Schedule
- [ ] 5.0 M3 Update - TODO: Update guide
 - JUnit 4 interoperability
 - Additional discovery selectors

- [ ] 5.0 M4 Update - Due by March 5, 2017
 - Parameterized tests
 - Enhanced dynamic tests
 - Documentation
 
- [ ] 5.0 M5 Update - Due by June 25, 2017
 - Scenario tests
 - Repeated tests
 - Test execution in user-defined thread

- [ ] 5.0 RC1 (Release Candidate 1) Update - Due by July 23, 2017
 - Last fixes before GA

- [ ] 5.0 GA (General Availability Release) Update - Due by August 24, 2017
 - First General Availability Release

[Milestones](https://github.com/junit-team/junit5/milestones/)

### To-Dos
- [ ] Update for Milestone 3                            -   XX XXX 2017
- [X] Incorporate JUnit Best-Practice on request        -   15 Feb 2017
- [x] Change name                                       -   05 Aug 2016
- [x] Finish Stream TODOs                               -   05 Aug 2016
- [x] Proper Presentation                               -   04 Aug 2016
- [x] Add reference                                     -   03 Aug 2016
- [x] Add expectThrows()                                -   03 Aug 2016
- [x] Add @Nested                                       -   03 Aug 2016
- [x] Adjust packages and classes for presentation      -   01 Aug 2016
- [x] Extend Test-Extensions                            -   29 Jul 2016
- [x] Test-Extensions (o\j\j\api\extension)             -   28 Jul 2016
- [x] @TestFactory + DynamicTests                       -   26 Jul 2016
- [x] Reorder packages and classes                      -   26 Jul 2016
- [x] Links to Java-Files                               -   24 Jul 2016
- [x] Dependency Copy-Paste Resource                    -   24 Jul 2016
